---
layout: post
title: "GSoC 2018 Week 1 With Coala"
date: 2018-05-24T08:38:00+07:00
---

### The Code
At first days of the week, I started with fixing depracation warning that shown in the http://github.com/summerofcode/gsoc-prep-tasks project. This is my first though to do. I did it because when I started that project, back in 2017, my ember knowledge was small, this is the first project created with ember.

During the time there is a massive switch from `bower` to `npm` packages. I was dumb to think that using npm as package manager in every type of package is a good practice. Well, atleast not with ember, at that time, ember support for npm package is very little, the `app.import` is not yet available in the release version. I had to use the `ember beta` version.

The app is bloated with unnecessary and unmaintained library that cause the app showing deprecation warning.


### The Notification
As a passive github user, I rarely use github notification to check mentions and task. I rarely do contribution, except for bugs report and small issue, that i confident that i can fix it. When i checked it during the first days of the week, I saw the review request from one of pull request. It was Ruby, and I'm pretty confident that the ruby code doesn't have any flaws.

### The Python Frustation
I'm not a python developer with a very low knowledge. I do python review on https://github.com/coala/coala/pull/3750#pullrequestreview-120015016, was a really bad one, although in my effort, i did a lot of code reading, do online search about python best practice, and i still make a mistakes at doing python review. Was a silly mistakes i admit. Well, i'm a noob, i guess, i will stick with Ruby.

## The Change of Mentors & The Probation Notice
I receive probation notice 3 days after the coding officially begins. Apparently, my Pull Request Review & Milestones is a Mess. The notice required me to not doing any code outside of coala repo and also to change with my Project, which at the time overlap with GH-Boards that has already been forked and optimized  by coala.

There was also a Mentorship miss communication, which not identified until recently. It was also because of me not doing Community Bounding, and not contacting the mentor up until my first week. My main mentor was changed to @blazeu 23 May.

## The lost of job
This GSoC, I went all in. Which, i probably will regret. I'm a noob python. I left my job to do GSoC 12 hours a day in a community that expect the people to do python (See my python frustation part). The job was used to pay my Uni and daily bills, failure of this project, may results failure on my Uni. I hope i don't have to write Python in order to pass evaluation.

